---
title: "CNAdjust: Enhancing CNA Calling Accuracy through Systematic Baseline Adjustment"
template: post.html 
authors:
 - '@hangjiaz'
 - '@mbaudis'
date: 2025-09-26
pdf_file_name: 2025-09-26___Zhao-and-Baudis__CNAdjust-enhancing-CNA-calling-accuracy-through-systematic-baseline-adjustment__Frontiers-in-Genetics.pdf
---

#### Hangjia Zhao and Michael Baudis
##### Frontiers in Genetics. 2025 Sep 26.
* doi: [10.3389/fgene.2025.1674138](https://doi.org/10.3389/fgene.2025.1674138)

**Abstract**: Accurate determination of the genomic copy number baseline is crucial for identifying copy number alterations (CNAs) in cancer, yet it remains a significant challenge in tumors with complex karyotypes. To address this, we present CNAdjust, an integrated method to systematically detect and correct baseline inaccuracies in CNA data. CNAdjust employs a Bayesian framework that integrates cohort-specific CNA frequency priors with a data-driven plausibility score, ensuring that adjusted calls align with both biological cohort patterns and study-specific data. <!--more--> Performance validation using the TCGA pan-cancer dataset demonstrated improved alignment with absolute copy number estimates and enhanced CNA pattern interpretation. Furthermore, we revealed a strong correlation between chromosomal aneuploidy and baseline abnormalities, underscoring the prevalence of this issue in cancer genomics. By systematically improving the precision of CNA calls, CNAdjust serves as a critical tool for constructing harmonized reference datasets and advancing the progress of precision oncology. Its implementation as a standard, portable workflow enables the reproducible and scalable analysis of large, heterogeneous datasets,
supporting large-scale genomic research. Source codes are available at: [github.com/baudisgroup/CNAdjust](https://github.com/baudisgroup/CNAdjust).
