---
title: "A cancer genomics resource built on GA4GH standards"
layout: default
authors:
  - '@rahelp'
excerpt_separator: <!--more-->
category:
  - presentations
  - news
tags:
  - presentation
  - news

---

## A cancer genomics resource built on GA4GH standards
### Rahel Paloots, Michael Baudis
#### CGC St Louis 2022

Progenetix is a cancer genomics resource that includes genomic profiling data as well as biomedical annotations and provenance data for cancer studies. 
The main goal of the Progenetix database is to provide easy, open access for research studies and clinical diagnostics. To facilitate sharing of 
genomic data, Progenetix complies with and contributes to GA4GH and Beacon data standards. Beacon, developed with the support from ELXIR 
(the European bioinformatics infrastructure organization), started out as protocol to share genomic variants over federated queries. The current 
development of Beacon (Beacon v2) enables extended metadata-rich queries in both public and restricted federated access modes. The implementation 
of Beacon v2 API in Progenetix, offers a solution to sharing vast amounts of genomic data securely and effectively. Moreover, it is open-access 
and well-documented, with an open API for third party use. Currently, Progenetix contains around 130 thousand cancer copy number variant (CNV) 
profiles from more than 700 different cancer types (NCIt classification), making it the largest resource for cancer CNV profiles. In addition to 
primary neoplasia samples, Progenetix also includes a set of cancer cell line CNV samples. In order to provide a comprehensive cancer cell line 
variant database, Progenetix also incorporates known single nucleotide variants of cancer cell lines.
